# httplinkchecker
Written in java, httplinkchecker is used to check if HTTP links are broken or not

##  0. CLI Usage on Windows 10 system:

	Syntax: 
		$java -jar httplinkchecker.jar -r arg-1 arg-2 ...

	Note: 
		1. the tool, named as httplinkchecker, is an executable jar file in java.
			Before using it, on Windows 10's cmd.exe, issue the following command:
				javac
			to check if your machine has installed the latest version of jdk 15.
			
		2. the CLI arguments are separated by one space keystroke;
		
	  	3. arg-1 and arg-2, etc can be 
			either a directory/folder path 
			or a file name with a regular file extension(such as txt, html) in the current directory/folder
			or both.
			
		4. the options of this tool ALWAYS starts with a single '-'.
		   So far, the options programmed are: 
			1. -r: recursively read all existing sub-directories/folders for regular files
			2. -v: version information
			3. -h/help: for information about the tool as well as instructions on how to use the tool

##  1. Design Considerations:
	1.1 Objects to be used:
		1.1.1. ArgParser: 
			parsing all the user input via CLI arguments
			generating the corresponding absolute paths for the files to be processed by LinkRetriever

			public interfaces: only getter methods
			
		1.1.2. LinkRetriever:
			based on the absolute paths generated by the ArgParser, 
			search the corresponding files for legal http/s links

			  
		1.1.3. LinkValidator

		1.1.4. LinkStatus

		1.1.5. Message

##  2. Implementation Considertations:
		2.1 LinkRetriever: 1. Performance is a key factor to be considered 
					when the number of files to be searched and the size of a file to be searched 
					are signficant enough to impact the performance of this tool. 
				   2. GNU Grep is recommended for searching for HTTP links
				   	due to its implmenetation of Boyer–Moore string-search algorithm.
				   3. Multithreading is considered. 
				   4. SeekableByteChannel and ByteBuffer.allocateDirect are considered 
				   	based on the suggestions from
				https://stackoverflow.com/questions/14037404/java-read-large-text-file-with-70million-line-of-text 

		2.2 LinkValidator: 1. Performance could become significant issue when sending out HTTP requests and waiting for responses.
				   2. Mutlithreading is considered via java's ExecutorService to manage multithreading.
		 
		2.3 Singleton pattern is used for utility classes: LinkStatus and Message
		
		2.4 In Message class, use HashMap instead of 2D String array to store all fixed messages for output

##   3. Known issues
	3.1 jdk version conflicts between the version installed on Windows 10 and the version used by Eclipse(2020-09)  
	3.2 The CMD console on Windows system can't produce colored output based on ANSC Codes.
	
## 4. To-Do List:
	4.1 output in color, based on https://github.com/dialex/JColor
